[DOCS] Align with ILM changes. (#55953)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/slm/getting-started-slm.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="basic"]
[[getting-started-snapshot-lifecycle-management]]
=== Tutorial: Automate back ups with {slm-init}

> This tutorial demonstrates how to automate daily back ups of {es} indices using an {slm-init} policy.

Reviewer: > This tutorial demonstrates how to

I thought we typically strayed away form this type of meta language. We could probably rephrase to something like `You can use an {slim-init} policy to` ...

Author: Tutorials are the one place the meta-info doesn't really bother me. I'm going to leave it for now & look at the language we use in other places. I'll open another PR to be consistent, one way or another. (With tutorial in the titles, it's not really necessary to repeat "tutorial" in the text for SEO purposes.)

> This tutorial demonstrates how to automate daily back ups of {es} indices using an {slm-init} policy.

Reviewer: We should probably connect `backup` = `snapshot` before the following para.
```suggestion
This tutorial demonstrates how to automate daily backups of {es} indices using an {slm-init} policy.
```

> The policy also defines a retention policy and automatically deletes the snapshots when they

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The policy also defines a retention policy and automatically deletes snapshots when they
```

are no longer needed.

To manage snapshots with {slm-init}, you:

. <<slm-gs-register-repository, Register a repository>>.
. <<slm-gs-create-policy, Create an {slm-init} policy>>.

> You can manually trigger the policy to test the policy and take an initial snapshot. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test the policy, you can manually trigger it to take an initial snapshot. 
```

[float]
[[slm-gs-register-repository]]
==== Register a repository

> To take snapshots and use {slm-init}, you must have a snapshot repository configured. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use {slm-init}, you must have a snapshot repository configured. 
```

The repository can be local (shared filesystem) or remote (cloud storage).  

> Remote repositories can reside on S3, HDFS, Azure, Google Cloud Storage, 
> or any other platform supported by a repository plugin.

Reviewer: Plugin links?
```suggestion
Remote repositories can reside on S3, HDFS, Azure, Google Cloud Storage, 
or any other platform supported by a repository plugin.
```

Remote repositories are generally used for production deployments.

> For this tutorial, you can register a local repository from the {kib} Management UI, 
> or call the put repository API directly:

Reviewer: No comma needed. Also not a big fan of "call directly." 
```suggestion
For this tutorial, you can register a local repository from the {kib} Management UI
or use the put repository API:
```

[[slm-gs-create-policy]]
==== Setting up a snapshot policy

> Once you have a repository in place, you can define an {slm-init} policy to automate your backups. 

Reviewer: We kinda jump between backups and snapshots. I'd establish backup = snapshot upfront and just use one.
```suggestion
Once you have a repository in place, you can define a {slm-init} policy to automate your backups. 
```

Reviewer: Oops. Bad suggestion on my part. Please ignore.

The policy defines when to take snapshots, which indices should be included, 
and what to name the snapshots. 
A policy can also specify a <<slm-retention,retention policy>> and 
automatically delete snapshots when they are no longer needed.

TIP: Don't be afraid to configure a policy that takes frequent snapshots.
Snapshots are incremental and make efficient use of storage.

You can define and manage policies through the {kibana} Management UI, 

> which invokes the {slm-init} put policy API to create policies according to the options you specify.

Reviewer: Not sure how useful it is to peel back the hood here. I'd just tell people they can use the UI or the API.
Don't think it matters that they know the UI invokes the API.

> You can define and manage policies through the {kibana} Management UI, 
which invokes the {slm-init} put policy API to create policies according to the options you specify.

> For example, you could define a nightly-snapshots policy 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you could define a `nightly-snapshots` policy 
```

> to back up all of your indices daily at 1:30AM UTC.

Reviewer 2: The below example is 2:30am
```suggestion
to back up all of your indices daily at 2:30AM UTC.
```

}
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[continued]
<1> When the snapshot should be taken in

>     <<schedule-cron,Cron syntax>>: daily at 1:30AM UTC

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <<schedule-cron,Cron syntax>>: daily at 2:30AM UTC
```

<2> How to name the snapshot: use  
    <<date-math-index-names,date math>> to include the current date in the snapshot name
<3> Where to store the snapshot
<4> The configuration to be used for the snapshot requests (see below)
<5> Which indices to include in the snapshot: all indices
<6> Optional retention policy: keep snapshots for 30 days, 
retaining at least 5 and no more than 50 snapshots regardless of age. 

You can specify additional snapshot configuration options to customize how snapshots are taken.
For example, you could configure the policy to fail the snapshot 
if one of the specified indices is missing. 
For more information about snapshot options, see <<snapshots-take-snapshot,snapshot requests>>.

[float]
[[slm-gs-test-policy]]
==== Test the snapshot policy

A snapshot taken by {slm-init} is just like any other snapshot. 

> You can view information about snapshots in {kib} or get info with the snapshot APIs. 

Reviewer: Links?
> You can view information about snapshots in {kib} or get info with the snapshot APIs.

> In addition, {slm-init } keeps track of policy successes and failures so you 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, {slm-init} keeps track of policy successes and failures so you 
```

have insight into how the policy is working. If the policy has executed at

> least once, the <<slm-api-get-policy>> API returns additional metadata

Reviewer: I typically define anchor text. You may want to see how this renders to ensure its not italicized.
> <<slm-api-get-policy>> API

that shows if the snapshot succeeded.

You can manually execute a snapshot policy to take a snapshot immediately. 
This is useful for taking snapshots before making a configuration change, 
upgrading, or to test a new policy. 
Manually executing a policy does not affect its configured schedule. 

For example, the following request manually triggers the `nightly-snapshots` policy:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_slm/policy/nightly-snapshots/_execute
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[skip:we can't easily handle snapshots from docs tests]

After forcing the `nightly-snapshots` policy to run, 

> you will see the sucess or failure information if you retrieve the policy.

Reviewer: I try to avoid using `see` for accessibility reasons. 
```suggestion
you can retrieve the policy to get success or failure information.
```

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_slm/policy/nightly-snapshots?human
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[continued]

> The response also shows when the policy is scheduled to execute next:

Reviewer: I'd incorporate this with the above para. Kinda odd to have the info split over two paras with a snippet between.

        "max_count": 50
      }
    },
    "last_success": { 
      "snapshot_name": "nightly-snap-2019.04.24-tmtnyjtrsxkhbrrdcgg18a", <1>
      "time_string": "2019-04-24T16:43:49.316Z", <2>
      "time": 1556124229316
    } ,
    "next_execution": "2019-04-24T01:30:00.000Z", <3>
    "next_execution_millis": 1556048160000 
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[skip:the presence of last_failure and last_success is asynchronous and will be present for users, but is untestable]

<1> The name of the last snapshot that was succesfully initiated by the policy
<2> When the snapshot was initiated
<3> When the policy will initiate the next snapshot

The response shows if the policy succeeded in _initiating_ a snapshot.
However, that does not guarantee that the snapshot completed successfully. 
It is possible for the initiated snapshot to fail if, for example, the connection to a remote
repository is lost while copying files.

Only the most recent success and failure are returned, 

> but all policy executions are recorded in the `.slm-history*` index.

Reviewer 2: It's strange to call `.slm-history*` a single index, since it's a collection of indices behind an alias named `.slm-history`, we could either change this to "indices" or only mention the alias?

For more information about using {kib} to set up and manage snapshot policies, 

> see {kibana-ref}/snapshot-repositories.html[Snapshot and Restore]. 

Reviewer: I'd probably move this up higher. Maybe a tip at the beginning?

> For more information about using the APIs directly, 
> see the <<snapshot-lifecycle-management-api,{slm-init] API documentation>>.

Reviewer: I don't think this is needed if we link the APIs inline.
```suggestion
```
